Add notes for Nov 2020 (#90)
tc39/tc39-notes: meetings/2020-11/nov-16.md

LEO: Thank you so much.

## ECMA Secretary's Report

IS: [presents slides]

WH: When is the December GA meeting next year?

IS: Ninth and tenth. Wait a second. What your next month next week next month did not send 10 and don't you next year is eight and nine December if I got it correctly, I copied it. All right.

WH: Well, this presents a problem because the TC39 meeting will be at the same time as the GA meeting. That's not good for those of us who need to go to both.

IS: Okay, that's that's a good good catch. OK, so apparently we have a conflict with TC39’s new schedule which was presented just half an hour ago and the GA meeting. Yes, so we since it is difficult to move the general assembly meeting. So I would say that we have to move the TC39 meeting. It would be better the week beforeI know can become brings theOut to the general assembly meeting. 

RPR: Alright, will review that now and make a swift change to the tc39 meeting them? Yeah. thanks Waldemar. Thank you very much. That was a very good catch.

## ECMA262 status update
Presenter: Kevin Gibbons (KG)

- [spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262)

> - [slides]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MtgFNmwetns_mOWu0k6VKfwAuLrqom8GZdQhHna4WBE/edit)
```

LEO: yeah, we always discuss this and we always disagree. I'm not sure we can make a productive use of time during this meeting. Okay. 

WH: I agree with DE. I don't want to open the Pandora's box of explicitly specifying everything which should result in a syntax error in the spec.

AKI: And also SYG +1 DE and has nothing more to add beyond that. All right. So where does that leave us?

DRR: It sounds like maybe we need to test but it's not clear to me. Who or how I can try to work on it a little bit, but I'd need some guidance. So can we have a volunteer to help coach me on writing a test 262 test for now. 

KG: Let's just open an issue on that repository and we can talk about it there.

DRR: Sounds good. All right. Thanks Kevin. Thank you all and I'm done. Thank you.
#### Conclusion/Resolution
* Add tests.
## __proto__ normative optional options
Presenter: Jordan Harband (JHD)

- [pr](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2125#issuecomment-698502404)

> JHD:  So this is talking about PR #2125 on the spec. The current status of the pull request is that it is a normative request that moves __proto__ out of Annex B. There was an open question on it about whether it's allowed for implementations to do all to do a partial implementation of Annex B in other words, can you have __defineGetter__ and omit __defineSetter__? The editor group decided that we would land 2125 once it had had  appropriate updates without addressing the All or Nothing question, and Gus decided to add this to discuss in plenary about that question, which can be done in a separate PR or this one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JHD: So this is talking about PR #2125 on the spec. The current status of the pull request is that it is a normative request that moves __proto__ out of Annex B. There was an open question on it about whether it's allowed for implementations to do all to do a partial implementation of Annex B in other words, can you have __defineGetter__ and omit __defineSetter__? The editor group decided that we would land 2125 once it had had  appropriate updates without addressing the All or Nothing question, and Gus decided to add this to discuss in plenary about that question, which can be done in a separate PR or this one.
```

MM: The obvious bundle is actually larger, despite my saying that we should err towards smaller bundles. __lookupGetter__ and __lookupSetter__ are clearly part of the same bundle as __defineGetter__ and __defineSetter__. I agree that each time this question comes up it should be brought to tc39 plenary, but I expect quick answers.

JHD: So then to modify the proposal then Mark you're suggesting that all of `__defineGetter__`, `__defineSetter__`, `__lookupGetter__`, and `__lookupSetter__` be treated as one bundle.

MM: exactly.

KG: But not the __proto__ accessor; the __proto__ accessor would be a separate part.

MM: exactly. And in fact, I would be okay with the __defineGetter__ bundle becoming mandatory. Salesforce had a security concern that surprised me, but that is real, that makes me agree that the __proto__ accessor should remain optional. And in any case it's quite distinct from the defineGetter bundle conceptually.

> JHD:  So I'm going to then assume that we have consensus on making those four items one bundle and leaving the Proto accessor separate. And in the future as these questions come up we will bring them to plenary with the understanding that we are likely to decide on various little bundles ad hoc. Thanks everybody. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JHD: So I'm going to then assume that we have consensus on making those four items one bundle and leaving the `__proto__` accessor separate. And in the future as these questions come up we will bring them to plenary with the understanding that we are likely to decide on various little bundles ad hoc. Thanks everybody. 
```

#### Conclusion/Resolution
`__defineGetter__`, `__defineSetter__`, `__lookupGetter__`, `__lookupSetter__`, will be treated as one “bundle”: an implementation must implement either all or none of them
`__proto__` accessor will remain independently normative optional
Future questions of this nature will be addressed in plenary in an ad-hoc nature as items are lifted out of Annex B

> ## Re-resolve unresolvable bindings in PutValue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Re-resolve unresolvable bindings in PutValue
```

KG: Yes, so I'd like to ask for consensus for this PR that's been open for a while, which is just as I said: it makes IntegerIndexedElementSet, which is the operation for writing a integer index to a typed array buffer, always succeed regardless of if you are writing past the end of the array or to a detached buffer.

MM: I really find it hard not to object.

KG: I should mention that no implementation is ever going to change this.

SYG: The status quo is worse, I think.

MM: [sighs] I do not object, but very reluctantly. 

KG: I will capture that in the notes.

AKI: All right. Thank you all. I believe Yulia had something on the queue, but we had a minor blip in our queue. Was there something else?

YSV: it's cleared up in the chat.

BSH: I'm just curious - it was stated that we know that if we fix this it breaks various important websites; do we know why? Do we know what is it they're doing that somehow the program is actually working even though they're setting things that didn't actually get set and yet that's okay.

KG: I don't believe we know why, unfortunately.

BSH: Okay. Just wondering, yeah.
#### Conclusion/Resolution
* Accepted, reluctantly.

> ## clarifying conclusion to __proto__ normative optional agenda item

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## clarifying conclusion to __proto__ normative optional agenda item
```

JHD: Should __proto__ getter/setter be bundled as well? I'm not a hundred percent sure of what to suggest actually because I believe only the center has a security concern not together.

MM: I feel strongly they should be bundled together. The way to remove the setting behavior to remove the accessor property.

JHD: Does anyone else have thoughts on that? if not, I think we'll just go with bundling the two of them together.

MF: My preference aligns with Mark.

#### Conclusion/Resolution
`__proto__` getter and setter will be bundled

> ## Give %TypedArray% methods explicit algorithms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Give %TypedArray% methods explicit algorithms
```

in general, we should make sure there's a blank line before any `#`-marked headings.

Presenter: Shu-yu Guo (SYG)

- [pr](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2221)
- [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Um10s6wNWwRiUgxMu8Ur7jrLJPh9LZAVNdDlhUIF9bk/edit)

> SYG: So this is another thing where in Ross's quest to get the spec to reflect reality about typed arrays, we found some other parts that were under specified and have some engine disagreement. So this is one of those follow-on PRs I'm presenting for Ross. So currently on typedArray.prototype for the different TypedArrays, the first bullet point lists [on the slide] all the things that do not have algorithm steps. They only have prose. The only two methods that have algorithm steps are map and filter. So what the pr does is it tries to give everything algorithm steps, but we ran into some issues. So first of all what the prose currently says is the following three things. I'm paraphrasing of course, but they all basically say to implement the same thing as the array dot prototype counterparts except when you would read that length property instead read the internal slot array length on the typed array and at the start of every method call validate typed array basically all valid a type. The right does is it throws if the typed array is detached at the beginning of the method call? And what this PR does is then tries to follow the spirit of what the process would be. So it first copies the spec text word for word step for step from the array dot prototype, then inserts a valid typedarray call at the start, then substitutes all the reads of the length property with reads of the array length internal slot. And this is highlighted because this is the part that has disagreement and is under-specified and in red. The has property checks because type of a stand-up holes and implementations don't call hasProperty. Notably the prose doesn't say anything about what you should do about the hasProperty checks. So the implementations kind of interpreted some way and did something. Luckily only three methods care about the HasProperty checks. So steps 1 to 3 here is sufficient to fully define in a compatible way for all the methods except these three methods: includes indexOf and lastIndexOf. Once a typed array type to raise the underlying buffer is detached, type 3 behaves as if they have no index to come properties. So all calls to the hasProperty, the hasProperty internal method will return false for its properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SYG: So this is another thing where in Ross's quest to get the spec to reflect reality about typed arrays, we found some other parts that were under specified and have some engine disagreement. So this is one of those follow-on PRs I'm presenting for Ross. So currently on TypedArray.prototype for the different TypedArrays, the first bullet point lists [on the slide] all the things that do not have algorithm steps. They only have prose. The only two methods that have algorithm steps are map and filter. So what the PR does is it tries to give everything algorithm steps, but we ran into some issues. So first of all what the prose currently says is the following three things. I'm paraphrasing of course, but they all basically say to implement the same thing as the Array.prototype counterparts except when you would read that length property, instead read the internal slot [[ArrayLength]] on the typed array, and at the start of every method call validate typed array basically all valid a type. All it does is it throws if the typed array is detached at the beginning of the method call. And what this PR does is then tries to follow the spirit of what the process would be. So it first copies the spec text word for word step for step from the Array.prototype, then inserts ValidateTypedArray call at the start, then substitutes all the reads of the length property with reads of the [[ArrayLength]] internal slot. And this is highlighted because this is the part that has disagreement and is under-specified and in red. The [[HasProperty]] checks because TypedArray doesn't have holes and implementations don't call [[HasProperty]]. Notably the prose doesn't say anything about what you should do about the [[HasProperty]] checks. So the implementations kind of interpreted some way and did something. Luckily only three methods care about the HasProperty checks. So steps 1 to 3 here is sufficient to fully define in a compatible way for all the methods except these three methods: includes indexOf and lastIndexOf. Once a typed array type to raise the underlying buffer is detached, type 3 behaves as if they have no index to come properties. So all calls to the hasProperty, the [[HasProperty]] internal method will return false for its properties.
```

> So first, I'm going to show you how we differ. suppose we have the following code. We make a new Uint8array and then we make a poison pill that sneakily detaches the typed array when you use it as a value and then we check if the typedarray includes the value undefined. and the algorithm steps of aray.prototype.includes where we copied to the algorithm steps from what it does is, it gets the the value of the second argument which is the start index to search for my thing like it does the value of conversion and stuff after it validates that es that this argument so the validation in this case. At first it's not detached, so it doesn't throw but then it detaches when it tries to coerce or Converse. [Transcription Error]. So what should this do currently JSC throws because JSC kind of throws on all the detached stuff; spider monkey doesn't, it returns true meaning for  sneakily detached? for aBleep attached typed array it actually considers it to be a detached type of rate will upon defines, [transcription error] returns false, saying the detached typedArray does not include undefined or the proposal is to not aligned with you know, step by step what the array methods do but instead try to align with the spirit of what we interpret the spirit of the original Pros definition to try to mean which is aligned with the observable output of the array method. So what I think the observable third case [?] with the detached case is to set the length of a regular array of zero. I consider that an analogous case to sneakily detaching typed array. I sneakily set the length of a regular rate to zero. So this is basically the same example as before but instead of detaching, the length is 0. Here the engines all agree. We all say that a sneakily truncated array behaves as if it includes undefined. So recall again, the only engine that agrees with arrays today is spider monkey. So the proposal is to have spidermonkey semantics, to align with what the array analogy does. I think the web compat risk is very low. I don't think people are writing code like this. It seems very unlikely to exist in the wild. IndexOf again. Here's two examples that kind of tries to sneakily detach a typed array and truncate a regular array. For indexOf, V8 is the one that aligns with the array behavior. meaning array index of and typedarray index of both have a hasProperty check. and because a detached typedarray behaves as if it has no own properties, it does not find the index of undefined.  And same thing for lastIndexOf in reverse. So again aligned with the semantics here which aligns with the array semantics. For spider monkey least I don't think this is controversial. There's a join method that can also sneakily detach or truncate the input array and array that's joined is as if it's array full amount of undefineds. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So first, I'm going to show you how we differ. suppose we have the following code. We make a new Uint8array and then we make a poison pill that sneakily detaches the typed array when you use it as a value and then we check if the typedarray includes the value undefined. and the algorithm steps of aray.prototype.includes where we copied to the algorithm steps from what it does is, it gets the the value of the second argument which is the start index to search for my thing like it does the value of conversion and stuff after it validates that es that this argument so the validation in this case. At first it's not detached, so it doesn't throw but then it detaches when it tries to coerce or convert. So what should this do currently? JSC throws because JSC kind of throws on all the detached stuff; SpiderMonkey doesn't, it returns true meaning for  sneakily detached; V8 returns false, saying the detached TypedArray does not include undefined or the proposal is to not aligned with you know, step by step what the array methods do but instead try to align with the spirit of what we interpret the spirit of the original Pros definition to try to mean which is aligned with the observable output of the array method. So what I think the observable behavior ought to be with the detached case is to be the same as the analog of setting the length of a regular array of zero. I consider that an analogous case to sneakily detaching typed array. I sneakily set the length of a regular rate to zero. So this is basically the same example as before but instead of detaching, the length is 0. Here the engines all agree. We all say that a sneakily truncated array behaves as if it includes undefined. So recall again, the only engine that agrees with arrays today is spider monkey. So the proposal is to have SpiderMonkey semantics, to align with what the array analogy does. I think the web compat risk is very low. I don't think people are writing code like this. It seems very unlikely to exist in the wild. IndexOf again. Here's two examples that kind of tries to sneakily detach a typed array and truncate a regular array. For indexOf, V8 is the one that aligns with the array behavior. meaning array index of and typedarray index of both have a hasProperty check. and because a detached typedarray behaves as if it has no own properties, it does not find the index of undefined.  And same thing for lastIndexOf in reverse. So again aligned with the semantics here which aligns with the array semantics. For spider monkey least I don't think this is controversial. There's a join method that can also sneakily detach or truncate the input array and array that's joined is as if it's array full amount of undefineds. 
```

WH: You said that if you call includes on an empty array and you search for undefined it returns true, but it actually returns false.

SYG: what if you if you search on empty array for undefined you get false you right you search an empty array in this fashion where you sneakily truncate the array? in the conversion of the second argument you initially when you called includes the array is not yet empty. Okay. Does that clarify? 

WH: Yeah, I'm just trying to figure out what the regular array semantics are that you're trying to match here.

> SYG: What I'm matching is that in typedrrays when I first call?The typedaray rate it's not yet detached its buffer is not yet attached with attaches. IIt is the conversion the second argument.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SYG: What I'm matching is that in TypedArrays when I first call includes, the TypedArray isn't yet detached, it's still attached. It is the conversion the second argument that causes the TypedArray to be detached.
```
